---
author: Brian Waddle
title: Shibu Varghese&#58; A Lifetime in Healthcare
category: alumni-voice
cover-image: shibu-cover-image.jpg
layout: post
---
My mother came to the United States from India as an internationally-recruited nurse and settled in Houston. I was just eight years old. She introduced the healthcare industry to our family. Both my sister and brother ventured in healthcare also, and I began an affinity towards healthcare but was not sure what to do. Many counselors and mentors in my life at the time mentioned HCC and told me to review the career catalog. I flipped the pages and found several healthcare professions that I was interested in.  

I knew I wanted to immediately start working but also leverage my newly-found profession as a stepping stone to other interests that I may have. One particular profession, respiratory therapy, seemed to meet all my needs. I would have the immediate exposure to healthcare, opportunities for advancement within the field, and the ability to practice in my field in a short time. I was shocked how quickly I would have hands-on experience working in the hospital. I was really glad to have found HCC. 

My passion has always been working with people and in a service-oriented environment. The ability to provide a small sense of “hope” when talking with patients and family members became rewarding.  My parents have always preached the importance of education.  They also reminded me that HCC was a catalyst for my career and that this should propel me into the next phase of life. I started my degree in Health Care Administration, hoping to further my career in respiratory or in administration.  One of my rotations included time in the human resources department and I immediately fell in love with it.  I enjoyed the rotation so much that I applied for the only open position in HR, a front desk receptionist.  I had just received my bachelor’s degree, but because I had such a strong desire for working with people, I took a $20,000 pay cut and took a new direction in my career path.  And that tough decision was critical to my success; everyone thought I was crazy, but I knew I’d found my passion.  And I felt that having worked as a practitioner also allowed me to connect the clinical and administrative sides of a hospital.

HCC Coleman is able to jumpstart anyone’s career. It’s the catalyst of education in Houston. We are fortunate to have a college in our community that allows us to take the first step.  There are many individuals that are absolutely content with stopping after the first step, but if you have the passion and drive, you can take it as far as you like.  Take advantage of all the resources HCC Coleman has to offer, because the exposure, experience, and expertise that I received while I was there is why I am where I am today.  It will give you a foundation for you to do big things.  I am still thankful for my mentors in respiratory that not only provided me the skillsets for my career, but prepared me for life.

Shibu Vargas, M.A., is no longer the front desk receptionist at UTMB. He is currently the Vice President for Human Resources at The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, managing more than 19,000 employees.